Kinetics of Hypoglycemia
==============================

Insulin therapy revolutionized the care of patients with diabetes starting ~100 years ago. Insulin-induced hypoglycemia remains the most life-threatening complication of insulin therapy. To inform our understanding as well the development of solutions of this recognized complication we analyzed continuous glucose monitor (CGM) data from 1135 patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) representing 246.18 patient years. Specifically, through this analysis we define the kinetics of mild and severe hypoglycemic onset and resolution during the day and night.  Day time mild and severe hypoglycemia was observed after 61 to 74 minutes following initial blood glucose decline and lasted for an average duration between 35 to 74 minutes.  Onset of nocturnal mild and severe hypoglycemia was observed on average between 67 and 79 minutes following initial blood glucose decline and lasted for an average duration between 50 and 108 minutes, respectively.  Severe hypoglycemia during the day and at night was observed between 16 to 25 minutes following the onset of mild hypoglycemia, respectively.  These durations represent the windows of opportunity to prevent onset of hypoglycemia and the time it currently takes for patients to treat these events.

This git repo provides the code used to generate this analysis.

Project Organization
------------

    ├── LICENSE
    ├── Makefile           <- Makefile with commands like `make data` or `make train`
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project.
    ├── data
    │   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources.
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
    │   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling.
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
    │
    ├── docs               <- A default Sphinx project; see sphinx-doc.org for details
    │
    ├── models             <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
    │
    ├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering),
    │                         the creator's initials, and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
    │                         `1.0-jqp-initial-data-exploration`.
    │
    ├── references         <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials.
    │
    ├── reports            <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc.
    │   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
    │
    ├── requirements.txt   <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment, e.g.
    │                         generated with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`
    │
    ├── setup.py           <- makes project pip installable (pip install -e .) so src can be imported
    ├── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
    │   ├── __init__.py    <- Makes src a Python module
    │   │
    │   ├── data           <- Scripts to download or generate data
    │   │   └── make_dataset.py
    │   │
    │   ├── features       <- Scripts to turn raw data into features for modeling
    │   │   └── build_features.py
    │   │
    │   ├── models         <- Scripts to train models and then use trained models to make
    │   │   │                 predictions
    │   │   ├── predict_model.py
    │   │   └── train_model.py
    │   │
    │   └── visualization  <- Scripts to create exploratory and results oriented visualizations
    │       └── visualize.py
    │
    └── tox.ini            <- tox file with settings for running tox; see tox.readthedocs.io


--------

<p><small>This work leverages a file structure template generated by the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>
